A touch rugby pitch is defined to be XX m by XX m with markations in the middle, the ten meters from the middle and the 7 meters from the score line. Beyond the pith the deadball line marks the end of the score zone.

For the attackin team several lines can be identified that distinuish different areas of significance. For one the zone beginning 10-15 meters from the opposition's scoreline will mark the transistion from driving focused "vertical" movement to line attack and scoring focused lateral movement. The point in the green zone is to advance up the field to then be able to score in the blue zone.

Additionally and area marked in pink here is the area relevant to performing an effective [sub-drive](../4%20-%20Attack%20Moves%2C%20Maneuvers/4.4%20-%20Sub-Drives.md?fileId=1382292) in which the attacking team will substitute its players as quickly as possible. Since the subbox is located on the side of the pitch near the middle line an particular focus of any successful sub-drive is to get the ball while under control or a touch in the red circle.

For the defending team the pitch can be divided in three equal parts with increasing risk of having the opponent score the closer they get to score line being defended. Usually the green zone starting at the attacking teams 7 meter line poses the least risk of scoring and thus the most risky defending. The yellow zone around the middle line already poses more risk and might involve a different and less risky policy to defend. The red zone close to the line holds the highest risk of scoring and will need to adapt to the lateral attack patterns of the opponent. Most teams follow different defensive policies for each of these three zones.

If the ball never gets into the red zone, the defending team will never be score upon. Thus the defending team will try to force 6 touches and a turnover somewhere further up the field. A great opportunity to force these touches is in an interchange or sub-drive when the attacking team is inclined to enter a choke point round their interchange area or subbox. Thus most teams will prepare a forth defensive policy for when the ball enters the blue zone, Performing and defending against a sub-drive allows for the most intricate and deliberate orchestrations and sometimes yields incredible frustrations and also incredible elation. Cutting like a hot knife through butter. 