## ✋ How to make a touch

Minimal contact. The mark and the offside.

The attack will either want to move forward or sideways during the touch. For the defender it comes down to winning the touch through to scenarios:

## Arresting play or triggering the cascade

Depending on where on the pitch the touch is happening there are basically two scenarios that the touch and successive rollball will effect. The first would be arresting play in the sense that the attack is phased out of their plan. This may be a well coushioned two handed touch against a ball carrier in a drive that would delay them from placing the ball and thus interrupt the rhythm of the drive. This may be touching a player who is not anticipating to get touched and thus hasn't slowed down enough to be on the mark. When the attack has to retreat to the mark or runs the risk of overstepping the defense has "asked enough questions" to play a burden to decide on the referees. Either the overstepping will be sanctioned by a loss of possession or the rhythim of the attack is interrupted. Both are good outcomes for the defense.

In line attack vis a vis line defense the possible outcome of a touch is amended by a new scenario. The defender can still try to arrest play but a line attack will look to maneuver defensive players out of position and use the touch as a trigger for a cascade of attacking options.

In both cases the defending player has to get onside. An good attacking team will use the fact that the toucher is offside to their advantage.

The Toucher getting in the position to make a touch

clearing to ruck

winnning the ruck

Getting back onside

covering for your neighbour

After the touch

prior to the touch

positioning your self so that you can touch two players

7th man defense ---> Where to position

Shuffling in defense

shift in defense

mirroring --> When there is a scoop