Scoring against an opponent who isn't trying to match you is easy. If the defense is not in an approximate position opposite the attack then there is a huge gap to exploit. Like Pendulums the defense will find a resting position that mirrors the attack but slightly more compressed with the center of the compression at the position of the ball.

When this resting position is in place the attack gets to use the touch to upset the balance and take one of the defenders out of the equation providing a new and clear opportunity to score, usually in the simples variations outside of the defender by simply beating them with speed.

Whether or not this attack move is a quickie or something more elaborate upsetting the natural balance of the defense in the goal of the "move" through the touch. Bonus points if the toucher is already out of position when the touch happens.

Defenses will react but more importantly and Defenses can be taught to behave in a certain way. The Arms race comes down to manipulating the defense as much as possible within the 6 alloted touches and over the course of the whole match to produce gaps, offside positions and ultimately scores. The Defense will itself try to withstand that manipulation more and more and even throw in a couple of surprises to arrest and disturb the flow of play. While even capable players there is only able to perform a limited set of coordinated actions well this goal in the arms races is to maximize the amount of head fuckery you can instill on your opponent.

For the attack the progression of moves down the cascade might involve skipping the anticipated next option or reverting back to a simpler variation. It may involve a feint for one move while performing another. For the defense the arms race involves better and better adaptation to attacking players, positions abilities and maneuvers over the course of the play. Starting with a vanille defense with some local flavor and progressing up the ranks depending on what the attack shows them.

Both attack and defense at the end of a match, tournament or season will be more armed to attack or defend respectively by virtue of the experience and input of the opposing team. Because you are dependent on the other team to present you with a more or less obvious exploit or a seemingly unstoppable attack the arms race is what makes touch excitingly unpredictable.